# 1.13.0.4

**Release Date:** 2024-10-03
**Official Announcement:** https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/1158310/view/4668634542673422051

---

Hello everyone! We're releasing a small update today to address some issues reported to us by the community. Notably, this update improves performance when rendering character portraits, as well as adding an easier way to check the status of your current contracts as an Adventurer.

If you encounter any issues after today’s update, [please check our Known Issues list](https://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/threads/known-issues-1-13-0.1705123/) and [submit a bug report](https://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/forums/crusader-kings-iii-bug-report.1143/) if your issue isn’t already listed there.


---


# PC Update 1.13.0.4 Changelog

## Bugfixes

​

-   The game will now run expensive portrait script every few frames instead of every frame, to improve FPS.
-   Fixed several triggers erroneously including Adventurers in the ending decisions for the Iberian Struggle, making them near impossible to succeed.
-   Fixed recreating Byzantium via the Decision not setting the correct State Faith
-   Fixed not being able to use interactions on Wanderers as an Adventurer.
-   Removed unnecessary blockers for owning expansions on achievements that didn't warrant them.
-   Fixed 'A Legacy to Last the Ages' Achievement not unlocking with newer legacy tracks.

## Balance​


-   Adventurers can no longer use a hook to force faith conversion of landed rulers (that option was supposed to be restricted to lieges)

## Interface

​

-   Added a task contract icon to the bottom-right of the HUD, next to Schemes. It should be easier now to find and access your currently active contracts, to check their status or to abandon them.
