# 1.15.0.2

**Release Date:** 2025-04-03
**Official Announcement:** https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/1158310/view/509576775894827358

---

We've now resolved the issue with yesterday's 1.15.0.1 update, so we're deploying Update 1.15.0.2 as planned. The changelog is effectively the same as 1.15.0.1, so you'll be familiar with the changes if you read yesterday's changelog.


---


# Update 1.15.0.2 Changelog

## Game Balance


-   Reduced the frequency of the 'Instill Virtue' Court Position task.
-   The ‘Instill Virtue’ Court Position task can only affect children 6 years or older now.

## Bugfixes


-   Fixed an issue that caused congenital traits to not show up in the character list of the Arrange Marriage window
-   Fixed an issue with a toast message saying "DESCRIPTION" instead of the actual description.
-   Fixed an issue with the ‘Instill Virtue’ Court Position task where it would affect the Wet Nurse herself, if her employer was a child ruler, rather than the child in question.
-   Fixed an issue where the Wet Nurse was using the children’s aptitude as a Wet Nurse rather than her own for the ‘Instill Virtue’ task. Creative, if nothing else.
-   Fixed an issue where you could try to make a county the capital of a Duchy/Kingdom/Empire without it being a part of the De Jure of said title.
-   Fixed an issue where an excessive amount of traits could push interface elements out of their respective windows.

## Interface


-   Added quick interact buttons for Ransom, Execute and Release in the Prison View
-   Added descriptions for how to gain experience in Commander Traits
-   Changed wording of the message when warscore gets capped
