# 1.17.1

**Release Date:** 2025-09-17
**Official Announcement:** https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/1158310/view/573767838266819604

---

Hello everyone! We're releasing Update 1.17.1 today to address some outstanding issues with _Coronations_ and the associated "Ascendant" update. Notably, this update includes a variety of tweaks and bug fixes for Oaths, as well as fixes for various issues reported by the community.


Please check the changelog below for more information.


---


# Update 1.17.1 Changelog


## Bugfixes:

-   Fixed Activity Pulse Action 'stopped to admire the venue' showing errors during the coronation from the guest's point of view.


-   Fixed all instances of Coronation host mentioning a guest's realm while swearing an oath.


-   ‘Champion of the X Culture’ decision: The check for de jure duchy existence in the decision requirements is now visible


-   ‘Consolidate the empire/kingdom’ oath: The requirement now fully checks for the title for which the coronation was held, not the current primary title.


-   ‘Purge Pretenders’ oath: Fixed the requirement for the children having a claim on your primary title.


-   ‘Purge Pretenders’ oath: Fixed decision display issues, fixed wrong law displayed in the selection tooltip.


-   ‘Repent’ oath: One pilgrimage is no longer counted as multiple.


-   Reduced the frequency of ‘The Witness’ event in coronations.


-   Promising buildings:  Fixed the character selection


-   Removed the requirements for the oath buildings and replaced them with piety/prestige costs


-   ‘Tales of Wars Lost’: fixed the reward giveaway


-   Fixed the broken loc in the player notifications from the ‘Tales of Wars Lost’ event


-   Fixed the primogeniture law being reset prematurely.


-   Fixed empty strings and broken scopes in the ‘Concerns Among the Clans’ event


-   Added some economic archetype checks in the oaths so that the AI can handle it a tad better


-   Character Memories about Coronations are now more reliable


-   The event ‘Fulfilled Oath’ will no longer display "Consolidate the None" upon completing the Reconquer Oath


-   Forbid Pope and other Heads of Faith from bringing any demands in the ‘Petitioners’ event chain


-   Disruption event for coronation guests, and thus the ‘Petitioners’ event for the host can only trigger if the detractors have higher military strength, or there is a faction targeting the host


-   Emperors of a faith with ‘No Anointment’ doctrine are set as Crowned, not Anointed


-   ‘The Crown-Son’: Non-Christian characters will no longer hold a very Christian scepter


-   Upon losing the last Kingdom title, all active oaths are removed, thus preventing a lot of edge cases


-   All activities no longer block artifact interactions


-   ‘Install Claimants’ Oath: The decision now properly requires 3+ claimants installed via wars.


-   Corrected the missing space in the ‘Install Claimants’ oath tooltip


-   Fixed the reward hooks being given backwards; they are now correctly given to the claimants and their heirs.


-   HRE Emperor Heinrich IV no longer ahistorically starts as crowned in 1066 bookmark


-   Building Oaths now better display the requirements for buildings in held baronies


-   When a ruler is deposed, the crown laws are properly reset for the heir


-   The ‘Head of Faith Arrives’ event will no longer try to fetch a missing chaplain for Nomads


-   Fixed coronation reward descriptions that made no sense for non-vassal characters


-   Fixed misleading tooltips about the numerical requirements for various Oaths


-   The Sayyid trait will no longer spawn new legend seeds if a holy legend seed already exists


-   Prevented rulers from giving away their coronation artifacts in the ‘Gift Worthy of a King’ event


-   ‘Shape the Realm’ Oath now has an updated building requirement in the decision window


-   ‘Strengthen the House’ Oath now is fully mechanically resolved upon completion


-   ‘Opportunity in Libation’ will not try to appoint a brewmaster if the court position is unavailable


-   Coronation rewards from ‘Embrace Supporters’ intent now target only supporters


-   Fixed a culture scoping issue in the ‘In A Time of Struggle’ event


-   Fixed the display of herd gain from coronations


-   Fixed the description of the ‘Anointed’ nickname


-   ‘Greatest Hunter’ Oath: fixed the reward text


-   Fixed edge cases in dynamic event text for the event ‘<Name>’s Moment’


-   Added missing localization for modifiers in ‘Gold Before Crown’


-   ‘A Common Cause’ will not trigger more than once during a coronation


-   ‘Restore the Bosporan Kingdom’ now correctly assigns the proper duchies to the new kingdom's de jure.


-   Fixed missing text for the modifier ‘ach_coronation_expended_resources_modifier’


-   Flipped AI legend logic


-   Fixed the AI logic for ‘Request Anointment’ to ensure AI emperors get anointed


-   Fixed the issue preventing the ‘Foreign Armor’ yurt upgrade from progressing past level 2


-   ‘A Delightful Treat’ now properly accounts for unlanded characters


## Content:

-   Added a powerful new event for coronation hosts, allowing you to use your skilled chancellor to break up a neighboring confederation or earn a new vassal or tributary


-   Added relation reasons for lovers in coronation_events.6030


## Balance:

-   The ‘Divine Marriage’ tenet now has the incestuous trait as a virtue.


-   Zealous characters are now easier to convert to witchcraft if their faith accepts witchcraft, and the witch trait is a virtue.


-   Increase the cost of the Level 6 ‘Millet Storage’ yurt building to its intended level


---


As always, if you encounter any issues after today's update, please disable any mods and post a thread in the [Bug Report board of our official forums](https://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/forums/crusader-kings-iii-bug-report.1143/) if the issue persists.
