# 1.18.1

**Release Date:** 2025-11-12
**Official Announcement:** https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/1158310/view/587284166805028910

---

Hello everyone! We're releasing Update 1.18.1 today to address some stability, balance, and usability issues reported to us since the release of _All Under Heaven_. We're also including some new art assets for Southeast Asian characters in this update.


This update should be fully compatible with existing 1.18.02 save files.


Check the changelog below for more information!


---


# Update 1.18.1 Changelog 

## Bugfixes

-   Fixed the AI not recruiting/upgrading Men-at-Arms as they should, as they believed their income was far lower than it was in reality.


-   Customized Title names will once again be properly displayed in all relevant UIs. 


-   Women who serve as governors in Celestial realms will be referred to by their correct titles.


-   Winning a faction war to install a ruling regent no longer imprisons the ceremonial liege. 


-   Empire titles not part of a Hegemony can now de jure drift into a bordering Hegemony


-   Empire titles undergoing de jure drift are now striped on the Hegemony map mode.


-   Fixed edge case where a Councillor being moved from one Council to another would be fired from the new position. This also fixes potential crashes if the Councillor is a Minister in the Hegemony of China.


-   Fixed edge cases where Ministries could cause crashes.


-   Fixed issue where the Grand Campaign great project would not be correctly removed if cancelled. 


-   Fixed bug where under certain circumstances no one could host a local exam in independent celestial realms. 


-   Nomads AI migrating into a county will correctly evaluate the opponent - the top liege instead of county holder. It should prevent some suicidal migrations.


-   Blocks Guest Intent petition event options regarding Vassal Contracts from guests who are not feudal vassals of the host.


-   Removed the unnecessary requirement to own the Royal Court to be able to use the Iron Cavalry tradition.


-   Fixed triggers for some cultural variations of the Mongol/Greatest of Khans special armies, and prevents misnaming bugs.


-   Fixed duplicated characters in “A Resplendent Acclamation” (ep3_governor_yearly.3060) due to new ceremonial lieges.


-   Kamuyism faiths use steppe temple backgrounds rather than the generic fallback.


-   Removed some trivial Coronations memories and rewrote others to be more consistent with memory style.


-   Reduced instances of southern Dharmic temples appearing in East Asia.


-   Fixed generated characters appearing dead in Coronation ceremony phase events.


-   Updated administrative triggers in Coronation events so that East Asian admin characters will more often get Influence instead of Prestige.


-   Removed often-buggy memory names from the event text in “Coronation: Shared Memories” and other events.


-   Blocked Ministers from being eligible claimants for any title that isn’t the Hegemony of China. This would often lead to issues where other rulers could push their claims in a different realm to make them leave China proper. 


-   Fixed inconsistent triggers for the Administrative Family Attributes, causing them to show up for Japanese rulers in some cases when they should not. 


-   Fixed missing AI modifier in “Subsume Province” scheme. Now the AI can go back to its scheming ways.


-   Fixed missing text in the bad permafrost modifier. Now the bad modifier will properly tell you how bad permafrost is. Spoilers: it’s cold.


-   Fixed the permafrost modifier not working as intended when changing liege. Now the bad modifier is activated when a character of a culture without permafrost buffs takes over an area with permafrost.


-   Fixed text issues in the decision to retire as the house head of your house if you did not have an heir.


-   Disabled regnal numbering for Celestial, Meritocratic, Meritocratic Khanate, and Japanese government rulers.


-   Fixed the Grant Appointment interaction not increasing the target’s opinion of you when appointing them to Counties or Empires. The former is only relevant for certain government types, however, that relies on County tier appointments. 


-   Made sure that AIs who hold a city with Guild Halls will consider upgrading them.


-   Made sure that AIs with secondary-barony Temples consider upgrading the Main holding after enough buildings have been constructed (from 10 -> 8, etc.).


-   The decision “Join Movement” will now cost Prestige if you don't have access to Influence. 


-   The tooltip cost for Housing Reconstruction in Natural Disaster Recovery projects no longer names the Minister of Revenue's skill as the reason for the cost modifier when it's actually the Minister of Works’ skill that matters. 


-   Updated the tooltip for the Minister of Works, listing additional great projects the minister has access to that weren't mentioned.


-   “In Search of the Pure Land” now transfers titles and vassals to the heir with a toast message instead of deposing the ruler.


-   A eunuch can no longer be simultaneously offered to more than one character. 


-   Added candidate score tooltip breakdown in Title Appointment view.


-   Fixed incorrect map tooltips when within the Ritsuryō admin tab.


-   Added a localization string for hostile scheme bonus if you have a Hostile House Relation with the target.


-   Added a missing County Fertility bonus to Hegemonies. Should you be able to get a Hegemony as a Nomad, you will now receive the expected bonus.


-   Added a number of missing cost modifiers to the “Bring under Tribute” CB. Cost should now go down as intended when you have applicable modifiers.


-   Added court position name to the court position replacement description.


-   Added missing localization for faction reason “Born in purple”, which will now display the trait description and reason.


-   Adjusted the Prominence value for minister titles, making sure that they are more rigid when succession happens. Prominence could change briefly during succession, which could in some cases cause the character first in line to not inherit the title as expected. 


-   Blocked Celestial/Meritocratic/Meritocratic Khanate vassals from requesting a military governor to join their wars if their top liege is of a non-bureaucratic government type, as it felt a bit janky. They have to seek aid by other means instead. 


-   Blocked landless rulers from moving their rally points.


-   Blocked several cases of ministers sometimes being able to use CBs and start wars they were not meant to have access to. 


-   Changed the name and description of the “Independent Rulers” group in the Dynastic Cycle to improve clarity. It is now called “Other Rulers.”


-   Characters who spawned for the Fireside Chat event now receive localized culture and faith.


-   Contributor filters will now properly display whose Vassals and Tributaries are eligible to contribute to the Great Project.


-   Corrected localization for two holy sites - Nguu Hong & Xuhen. 


-   Defined text icons for Mantrayana and Pundarika faiths. 


-   Fixed a crash when using the add_lifestyle_xp console command.


-   Made it impossible for Coronation guests to get multiple guest Intent petition events by switching Intents.


-   Fixed Governor contracts only showing the merit icon as a potential reward, without any mention of the actual word “merit.” 


-   Fixed Succession Law triggered tooltips in Sōryō governments.


-   Fixed a bug that caused Ministers of the Hegemon to no longer be participants in the Dynastic Cycle.


-   Fixed a bug where Chinese special council positions could be visible in the interface for non-China Celestial Hegemonies.


-   Upon winning the Adventurer Invasion, your government will no longer default to Feudalism instead of Meritocratic, Celestial, Meritocratic Khanate etc.


-   Fixed Japanese Manor Medicine House bonuses not applying past the 1st building level.


-   Fixed confusing wording regarding innovations needed to research innovations from the next era.


-   Fixed a bug where, for the first month after the start of the game, the tooltip on blocs in Japan would look broken. 


-   Fixed a crash that could happen when looking at the Title History of a Title while the holder died and the game was paused.


-   Fixed a number of issues having to do with picking the correct artifacts in older events.


-   Fixed an issue with rulers being unable to use the Raid Estate scheme if they had Administrative Government. 


-   Fixed an issue with the “Ask for Governorship” interaction, which would show the titles of the top liege when asking the minister of personnel. Since they cannot be requested, we no longer show them in the list of titles.


-   Fixed an issue with the “Seize Hegemonic County” and “Seize Hegemonic Duchy” CBs being available against your peer-vassals if you are a Celestial Governor.


-   Fixed an issue with vassals not always getting your own government when using the “Demand Administrative Governance” interaction. 


-   Fixed broken localization for landless characters in spymaster task events. It now refers to the person instead of the title of the person.


-   Fixed it so that parochial and republic traditions are properly displayed in the tooltip when upgrading cities.


-   Fixed landless vassals always being located in the original de jure capital of their primary title instead of the actual capital for their start date.


-   Fixed some formatting issues with the text whenever a character would pay gold or treasury and the target would receive the other currency.


-   Fixed the "Install a Supporter" CB not applying any modifiers to its Piety cost. 


-   Fixed the "Invasion" CB not applying the correct modifiers to its Piety cost. 


-   Fixed the "Raze Mandala Capital" and the "Plunder for Contribution" CBs not applying the correct modifiers to their Piety costs. 


-   Fixed the AI acceptance for considering distance to capital in the "Ask for Governorship" interaction, which wouldn't work as intended when asking for higher tier titles.


-   Fixed the Candidate Score bonus from the Influential Contacts (i.e., Ducal Contract) perk not being applied as expected for Celestial characters. It now applies to characters with a civilian career.


-   Fixed the Domicile Building name not showing up correctly for the "Administrative Courtyard" (and its upgrades) in the Candidate Score breakdown.


-   Fixed the Influence Career cost bonus from the Righteousness Family Aspiration applying to characters not of your house.


-   Fixed the Influence Career interaction not adding candidate score for minister positions.


-   Fixed the names in the friendship reason when becoming friends due to character A praising character B. Character A should no longer praise themselves.


-   Fixed the options in the "The \[REALM] Treasury" follow-up event, where you pick a designated budget. showing the wrong values. The values stated in the tooltips didn't match the values you would actually use to set your budget.


-   Fixed the visibility of some great projects that require you to have a minister appointed. Instead of hiding the project in question, the game will now tell you that you need the specific minister. 


-   Landless characters without a domicile (e.g., some ministers in China) can now raise their armies in their capital. 


-   Other Buddhist faiths view Maitreya as evil as it views all of them. 


-   Administrative AI should now be prevented from being stuck in a loop of granting and revocation of barons of hostile faiths.


-   Restricted Current Situations from listing tributary defensive wars involving the player’s direct vassals. 


-   Fixed a Reversed truce trigger that blocked some valid migrations.


-   The “Ask for Governorship” interaction will no longer show titles of the same tier (or higher) than your top liege's primary title.


-   The Byzantine tradition of preventing characters with various disfigurements did not always work as intended. Claim wars, claimant factions, etc. would all look to a different set of traits and triggers, causing a number of inconsistencies of when a character could push a claim or not. This should now be fixed.


-   Teleportation license revoked: the Malta express from Djerba has been suspended indefinitely. The local lake is, as it turns out, not a part of the Malta Channel. 


-   The event “Cradled by Sickness” now has a less floaty baby.


-   Updated a notification in event "Taking in the Sights" when taking the "sparring ground" option, which wouldn't show the stress gain if you failed.


-   Updated the description for being unable to join a war against your own liege or vassals, as the perspective made it rather confusing. 


-   Updated the succession scoring for the Secretary Director. It should better match the title succession of the active minister title, and fallback values should make a bit more sense now. 


-   Updated the visibility for Celestial and Meritocratic vassal obligations. They should now always be shown for sub-vassals, but clearly explain that the liege is not a civilian/military governor, making the respective administration type unavailable. 


-   When the county control increasing adventurer contract is abandoned mid-way, it no longer triggers the event upon arrival.


-   Fixed an instance where rulers could fail to receive a Royal Court after becoming independent.


-   Commander Promoted event now removes the guest commander with a proper tooltip.


-   Available Herd is now taken into account when the AI considers decisions that cost Herd.


-   Available Influence is now taken into account when the AI considers decisions that cost Influence.


-   6-year-old children are now allowed to attend the Children’s Exam. 


-   The event suggesting to name a child after yourself will no longer fire for cultures who do not reuse ancestor names. 


-   Fixed “Regent Family” being displayed as “Imperial Family” when playing as a Vassal of a Ruling Regent 


-   Fixed definite-styled title’s names being uncapitalized in the title finder.


-   Fixed not being able to Influence Candidacy for the Ceremonial Monarch’s heir to the Ruling Regent title. 


-   Fixed some Chinese seals not being generated for appropriately named House’s Coats of Arms. 


-   Added House Head check to Aspect triggers for clarification purposes.


-   Added a cap to the treasury reward for tribute missions.


-   Adjusted headers in tooltips to not bleed out over the edge blocking some of the locked frame.


-   Character interaction and laws tab button for designating an heir block on the same requirements.


-   Characters with county level noble family titles can no longer be granted titles if they will not also be granted a landed title or already have one.


-   Clarified neighboring-Hegemony validity trigger for Hegemonic Exact Tribute.


-   Fixed AI House Aspiration weight for Onakatomi family in 867.


-   Fixed Bushidō Pledge requirement being unfillable by Sōryō vassals.


-   Fixed Create Ceremonial Claimant Faction appearing as interaction with rulers in other realms.


-   Fixed Go-Shirakawa being a vassal of Norihito instead of Kiyomori in 1178.


-   Fixed Imperial Pacification CB now being available against neighbors of Japan unless directly neighboring the target.


-   Fixed Japanese governments not allowing the Designate Heir interaction.


-   Fixed Tribute Mission gold tribute not being refunded if travel was never started.


-   Fixed Landless Adventurers remaining Participants in Disaster Situations despite leaving their area.


-   Fixed Milk Teeth not being categorized as trash artifacts.


-   Fixed Negotiate Joining Wars event selecting noble family titles as potential settlement options.


-   Fixed Relative House Military Power acceptance modifier in the Assume House Bloc Leadership interaction.


-   Fixed Single Combat events erroneously mentioning the creation of Cranial Trophy artifacts when not valid.


-   Fixed Tamna using the Holstein Coat of Arms.


-   Fixed an issue where the lock tooltip progress bar was being blocked by the header texture.


-   Fixed an issue where the progress circle when locking a tooltip was being blocked by the header texture.


-   Fixed becoming a Hegemon not properly invalidating Ceremonial Monarchies 


-   Fixed broken tooltip for Mandala Tribute Missions and added context to the Hegemons to get correct faith/culture rewards.


-   Fixed broken tooltip for the Create Ceremonial Claimant Faction if no claimant exists. 


-   Fixed capitalization of titles in map tooltips of the Administrative window.


-   Fixed flavorization of Koreanic heritage landless noble family heads to Hojang.


-   Fixed gameover if inheriting as landless noble family head of a house that the Ruling Regent belongs to in Japan.


-   Fixed higher tiers of Daigaku and Study Room Japanese domicile buildings not giving bonus to Court Tutor Aptitude.


-   Fixed higher tiers of Daigaku Japanese domicile building not giving bonus to Governor Efficiency.


-   Fixed inconsistently applied dynasty naming of Japanese counties and duchies.


-   Fixed issue where Tribute Mission concubine/eunuch validity was checked against the sender, not the receiver.


-   Fixed king-tier vassals in Japan using the Chinese imperial throne room.


-   Fixed knights having a Gunner accolade despite their ruler having no knowledge of gunpowder.


-   Fixed missing strings for an extra icon in House Bloc interactions. 


-   Fixed naming triggers for Goryeo and Samhan hybrid cultures.


-   Fixed newly created historical adventurers being immediately and erroneously exiled.


-   The medicine lifestyle event “A Troubling Translation” now properly suggests East Asian doctors if playing in East Asia.


-   Fixed some messages using concepts or other tooltips in their titles.


-   Fixed typo in the Taira glossary entry.


-   The Great Steppe pin will now show up when toggled on.


-   Hid the Create Claimant Faction interaction against Ruling Regents.


-   Hybrid and divergent cultures will no longer ignore their naming style aesthetic.


-   Kings and Emperors who become Mandala should no longer be Uncrowned.


-   Korean Buddhist court chaplains now have appropriate names.


-   Made Yamato less likely to take Honsei based on living Yamato member count.


-   Make asexual characters able to Romance their consorts.


-   Mandala bookmark rulers should be less prone to having a pre-selected Aspect now.


-   New Mandalas should start with No Aspect.


-   Non-Mandala rulers giving Temple Citadels to landless vassals no longer creates Mandala vassals.


-   Now “Decommission Temple” actually will actually decommission the temple. 


-   Swedish cultures in Southeast Asia should now get the appropriate court scene. 


-   Only the Tribal holdings held by the adopting ruler should become Temple Citadels. 


-   Rulers with a Temple Citadel should properly be able to convert to Mandala.


-   Interface hint fix: Only encourage switching to higher crown authority when using the right government type.


-   Improved All under Heaven HUD skin tooltip textures where they appeared to overlap edges.


-   Scriptoriums, Monastic Schools, and Monoliths can now properly be built in Temple Citadels.


-   Travel and Activity planner is now using the skinned background textures.


-   The Aspect of Trickery marriage trigger should now look at the correct court scope.


-   Triggers for events and on-actions related to travel arrival, start, and travel planner exit as well as when important locations enter and leave realms (saved event actions) are now evaluated before firing.


-   Become Tributary, Exact Tribute, and Tribute Mission decision should now all have the same underlying requirements for being able to use them, avoiding some edge-cases where tributaries might not behave as you'd expect.


-   Updated the second tier of the Chang'an Market building to ensure its benefits are in line with the first tier's.


-   Tutorial no longer states that exams won't be hosted while the game is unpaused.


-   Bestow Royal Favor task's tooltips now give accurate reasons why yours and chancellor's lands cannot be selected.


-   Corrected an issue where a coronation event might try to create new characters inside the coronation’s host, instead of in their location.


-   Corrected broken localization when attempting to build a Temple Holding as a broke Tribal Khmer.


-   Corrected duplication of stress impact in travel_danger_events.2000 in travel_danger_events.6000.


-   Resolved various minor discrepancies between the indicated state of a character in the bookmark screen and their in-game state.


-   Added missing bonuses for Floodplains terrain to the upper tiers of the Paddy Fields building chain.


-   Adjusted the name of the interaction to scapegoat your co-ruler to refer more generally to your co-ruler.


-   Allowed Mandala rulers to upgrade Temple holdings that come into their possession.


-   Blocked Influence-using governments from converting to Mandala via decision.


-   Blocked raiding for landless rulers, who lack a home to return their loot to.


-   Changed the check on whether you can Dismantle the Papacy to check whether the pope is landed, instead of whether the Pope is playable.


-   Corrected an issue in bp3_journey.1500 in which one of the potential court positions would not correctly target and replace its current holder.


-   Corrected incorrect scope in the scheme to Convert to Witchcraft.


-   Corrected several issues with the Faction to install a Ruling Regent, along with the associated war outcome.


-   Corrected some positive Coronation modifiers using the icon for mixed instead.


-   Disabled Debate hosting and participation for government types that do not use Merit.


-   Ensured that Designate Favored Minister can only be used on your own councilors, and not those of foreign rulers.


-   Exposed hidden requirement in the landless adventurer decision to champion a culture.


-   Fixed an issue causing the event for imprisoning someone to fire twice for the Minister of Justice.


-   Fixed an issue preventing Claimant factions from being formed against non-independent lieges.


-   Fixed an issue where it was possible for two governor contract events to fire with only one valid option.


-   Improved scripted triggers and conditions in an event that offers a concubine from a rival house (tgp_japan_yearly_events.1160) to make more narrative sense.


-   Independent rulers can now imprison their close and extended family members again.


-   Limited raise_stele_decision to landed rulers only and ensured that landless held titles are not considered as valid places to raise a stele.


-   Reduced the economic value of the severed head trophies generated by the Cranial Trophies tenet, restoring economic stability to Southeast Asia.


-   Removed a bit of unnecessary description that broke in localization in an option for court.8170.


-   Restored the existence of the great and noble Chao Phraya River to the map.


-   The Sinicize Area Great Project will now invalidate properly if the underlying land is taken by another realm.


-   When petitioning your liege for a governorship for a member of your family, said liege must now hold at least one de jure county within the boundaries of an available governorship to be able to select it.


-   Your Elder is now more likely to accept your requests if they have high compassion, instead of being less likely.


-   Defined a sexuality for Saladin.


-   Landless playable AI rulers will initiate marriage on their own, not just wait for someone to propose.


-   Unmarried rulers can again be selected via the “Arrange Marriage” interaction.


-   Fixed an issue where glossary tooltips for Chariot Race teams weren't displaying the correct text.


-   Updated the visibility of the Acclamation succession law. The new administrative based governments in Asia could never adopt it, yet had the law visible in the list of available succession laws. They no longer do.


-   Added better tooltips to explain that you cannot create or join factions against your bloc leader.


-   The tooltips for being forced into a House Bloc are now clearer.


-   The Head of Faith being unavailable during Coronations due to travel now has a proper tooltip.


-   Non-administrative vassals with a Centralized Governance law are now correctly forbidden from declaring war.


-   Corrected typos in the names of several baronies in China.


-   AI Meritocratic Governors will no longer start with an education focus unsuitable to their assigned administration type.


-   Fixed non-Ruling Regent characters of Empire or Higher tier retaining the Former Emperor trait.


-   Fixed some historical adventurer titles being flagged as noble families.


-   Fixed Japanese Ten'nō not being able to dismiss personal regents.


-   Fixed Ceremonial House secondary spouse acceptance penalty applying to all secondary spouse marriages.


-   Fixed being able to move Japanese Manor domicile outside the realm.


-   Fixed minimum Cohesion requirement tooltip of the Establish Sōryō Administration decision.


-   Fixed Force Retirement interaction using Treasury in governments that don't use Treasury.


-   Fixed governorships returning to the top liege when Demanding Retirement instead of going to the next-in-line.


-   Fixed Disaster Great Projects disappearing when inheriting multiple Disasters at the same time.


-   Fixed crash when trying to open the Japanese throne-room while following the tutorial steps.


-   Table of Princes innovation should now work properly.


-   Fixed the issue where snow did not properly cover certain objects on the map. (such as certain bridges and the Great Wall of China)


-   Fixed so sakura trees are affected by the snow shader and the plague overlay.


-   Made the map table floor tiles square instead of rectangular and increased their size.


-   Fixed an issue where is_clergy would no longer trigger on court chaplains but trigger on non-clergy people serving a theocratic ruler.


-   Fixed an issue where nomadic rulers wouldn’t buy as many men at arms at game start as other rulers.


-   Fixed an issue where your bloc allies wouldn’t show up in declare war window even if they were going to join you in an offensive internal war.


-   Updated the Form Shogunate Reactive Advice with accurate info.


-   Removed isolated piece of impassable terrain in the middle of the Pacific Ocean


-   Made "unstationed MAA" text easier to read.


-   Request Permission to Raid now costs prestige instead of influence if you are Sōryō.


-   Fixed an issue with the Restoration of Direct Imperial Rule decision not showing the right effects (it isn't supposed to say you get Japan, as you are supposed to already hold it)


-   Fixed “Offer Submission or Ruin” interaction weird AI acceptance tooltip.


-   Fixed some events using explicit naming order, which caused weird loc.


-   Fixed bug where the Silk Road would be highlighted during the Reactive Advice for Dynastic Cycle 


-   Fixed bug where silk road marker is repeated on the innovation screen.


-   Removed incorrect grammar and formatting in the Situation Panel subheader. 


-   Removed the name Liang from the adventurer “Liang Zhu Quanzhong”, made Zhu his dynasty name.


-   Added correct localization to the Zhu dynasty.


-   Added better effect tooltips inside the Grand Campaign Great Project interface and autocomplete it if there is nothing left to conquer. 


-   Added warning for Find Elder if you already have an Elder in the interaction desc. Fixed the reversed opinion penalty for switching movement.


-   Fixed a stray quotation mark in a Duchy of Dongpyeong name.


-   Fixed generate claim contract for landless adventurers having broken list of titles to target. 


-   Fixed hegemonic consolidation war redirecting to the wrong defender.


-   Fixed hegemonic consolidation war being hidden in Advancement and Tension Eras


-   Fixed immediate invalidation of siphon treasury secret in some cases.


-   Fixed low merit rank governor catalyst referring to merit concept instead of merit rank.


-   Fixed my movement custom localization returning Son of Heaven instead Pro-DynastyName


-   Fixed the Sheksna river name typo.


-   Prevented most Moire flickering of the occupation dashing visual on the map when zoomed out. 


-   Influence discount and treasury cost are applied correctly to the force retirement interaction for realms without retirement law or treasury. 


-   Japanese schoolhouse was not giving better education due to incorrect parameter checks, it is now checking a real parameter and children are getting the intended education boost. 


-   Physician aptitude was checking a non-existent domicile parameter in Japan Manor. It now checks a real one and gives the intended benefits. 


-   Rewritten reasons for Counties joining an Escalated Peasant Faction to be clearer.


-   Tweaked Eradicate CB to be available against independent rulers. 


-   Made “Mediators of X” event ep3_emperor_yearly.2110 available for All under Heaven


-   Minor script/loc tweaks to make ep3_emperor_yearly.2200 work with ceremonial monarchs. 


-   Minor script/loc tweaks to make Byzantium administrative events work in an East Asian context. 


-   Rebalanced tgp_japan_yearly_events.1220 - “A Miracle in Robes”


-   Fixed flying lake in Ireland 


-   Fixed missing Lake Toba 


-   Made Lake Maharloo pink again. 


-   Improved impassable terrain areas - made them look more “impassable”/unhospitable.


-   Fixed blocky terrain shorelines in various locations.


-   Fixed terrain areas where the terrain type did not match the terrain visuals.


-   The holding model of Tonggu barony now moved inside of its borders.


-   Make sure that Chinese characters get their historical dynasty coat-of-arms if it exists in our database. 


-   Fixed a number of issues in older events that checked for any artifact in the entire world instead of in a specific character’s inventory.


-   25 incorrectly placed starting nomad holdings are now herder holdings.


-   Adventurer Furon Daokai's religion is now Dhyana instead of Daoxue, and he now has the monk trait.


-   “From Beyond the Border” event option now correctly shows in the tooltip whose court the guest character is leaving.


-   Maralbeshi and Dondan Oilik province cultures are now Saka instead of Sogdian.


-   Disease event “From Dust” no longer produces an infinitely looping error.


-   The event “Alternative Reading” now consistently shows both options, rather than sometimes not displaying the first option.


-   Blocked the Censor from using Find Secrets scheme on non-title holders and yourself.


-   Made sure that parochial and republic traditions are not confused with each other in the tooltip when upgrading cities.


-   Improved player guidance in exams, making it clearer what score is required, what position they reached, and if they made the palace exam (and why not).


-   Ministers can no longer create or join the Independence faction, as this might cause unwanted behavior.


-   Fixed House Aspiration window to display remaining cooldown instead of cooldown value when trying to change aspiration.


-   Fixed treasury income interface fluctuation on loading a save-game due to Merit-ranks not having been processed yet.


-   Added county tooltips to the Ritsuryō Admin map mode.


-   When a noble family head is appointed to a title in administrative realms they will no longer break the de jure hierarchy and remain a direct vassal of their top liege.


-   Fixed it so horse ears do not peek out of activity windows for certain cameras.


-   Fixed text going out of bounds for exam advantages/cheats in ‘long’ languages.


-   Prevent inevitable crash when a ruler’s domicile has no valid province location. New rulers who for some reason have no valid capital location will not receive domicile.


-   Allowed proper transition from and into the Conquest Era. Now it’s based solely on being of a different Dynasty than the previous holder and having different cultural heritage than Chinese. Also, added automatic transition from Conquest to Tension if the new Emperor of China is of culture with Chinese heritage.


-   Fixed an issue where meritocratic succession did not function properly on duchies.


## Game Content

-   Unlocked Coronations for independent Celestial rulers.


-   Genghis’/Greatest of Khans’ special armies will feature new AUH MAA when appropriate.


-   Removed some inappropriate cultural traditions from nomads in North-East Asia, and added Iron Cavalry to Jurchens and Khitans


-   Added a Hegemonic Tributary type that works roughly like Celestial Tributaries (without the China-specific mechanics), for tributaries of the restored Roman Empire, Eastern Roman Empire, Indian Empire, and Dar al-Islam.


-   Added a new East Asian government type flavor to main Coronation events and prevents some inappropriate content from triggering.


-   Added Agrarian fallback tradition to Viet culture’s Rice Cultivators. 


-   The AI may now generate Bunga Mas artifacts in Tribute Missions to Mandala rulers and Mandala tributaries may now tribute Bunga Mas artifacts to their Mandala suzerains.


-   Added Imperial Seal Artifacts to the courts of Tang, Song, Viet, Japan, Korea, and Dali/Nanzhao on start.


-   Added the Heirloom Seal artifact to the Tang court in 867 - in later starts it is findable through adventurer inspirations when searching for artifacts in the China region.


-   Added the Eight-fold Box Artifact in the Chinese court in all start dates.


-   Added Armillary Sphere court artifact to the Chinese court in all start dates.


-   Added the Essentials for the Military Classics book artifact to the Song court.


-   Added the Banke no Hoken court artifact to the Chrysanthemum Throne’s court room.


-   Added the Shichishito sword to the Chrysanthemum Throne court room.


-   Adventurer Inspirations can now find more artifacts in China, Japan, Korea, and Southeast Asia, including the Heirloom seal (if lost), named Chinese ancient swords (including the Sword of Goujian) and the Baekje Incense Burner.


-   Seals of Investiture granted by the Emperor of China to tributaries can now be turned into court artifacts.


-   Characters can now acquire go-game boards as an outcome of playing board games.


-   Asian cultures default to beheading as their execution method of choice, instead of burning at the stake – a practice that rarely happened.


-   Updated the Han cultural tradition “Court Machinations” to allow rulers to castrate prisoners.


-   Updated the decision to adopt an Administrative Government. You now have the option to pick which type of bureaucratic government you wish to adopt, as long as you are eligible for the different options. 


-   Updated the restrictions for asking the Minister of War for a commander. As a military governor or the Grand Marshal, you can now always ask for commanders.


-   Added 10 new Hunt Events for East Asian Realms. 


-   Added a new name list for the Senoi culture. 


-   When Hybridizing two cultures you can now pick the Naming Style of either culture.


-   Added more East-Asian camp name components.


-   Added “Found a Ryukyuan Empire” decision for Ryukyuan leaders of the island.


-   Added “Found the Siam Kingdom” decision for Tai rulers of the region.


-   Replaced the adventurer Yang Kil with a new one: Ki Hwon.


-   Rework of Among the Blossoms event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance.


-   Rework of Chop, Chop event to be a more enticing risk/reward experience and have loc that justifies why a noble might chop wood. 


-   Rework of Lead Astray event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance. Also script refinements, killing created character and adding character to scene/animations/effects


-   Rework of Monkey Business event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance. Tweaks to animations and minor script tweaks as well. 


-   Rework of Prove your Worth event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance. Also script refinements, killing created character and adding character to scene/animations/effects.


-   Rework of Purifying the Spirit event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance. Tweaks to animations and minor script tweaks as well. 


-   Rework of Reflection of Pure Land event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance. Also script refinements, killing created character and adding character to scene/animations/effects.


-   Rework of Spreading Joy event to focus on improved player choice and historical relevance 


-   Rework of Taking it Easy event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance. Tweaks to animations and minor script tweaks as well. 


-   Rework of Tales of Tengu event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance.


-   Rework of Tengu Technique event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance. Also script refinements, killing created character and adding character to scene/animations/effects.


-   Rework of Treasures from the Sea event to streamline loc and improve historical relevance. Tweaks to animations and minor script tweaks as well. 


-   Made several fixes to the flavored customized words including expensive drinks, flower types, root vegetables etc.


-   Changing to a different movement will now cause a character to lose their elder.


## Art

-   Added new character art assets for Southeast Asia: 


    -   2 Nobility Male Female Headgears


    -   2 Royal Male Female Headgears


    -   Commoner Male Clothing


    -   7 Female Hairstyles


-   Added long ear blendshape for Southeast Asian culture.


-   Added Japanese Face Mask


-   Adding Song Dynasty and Tang Dynasty boots. 


-   Updated the Chinese court based on the community’s feedback. Added more candles and carpets, updated imperial tent, pillars, drapes, and lighting.


-   Added an East-Asian style Legend Chronicle art style.


-   Added Chinese/Hanja seals to historical House's Coats of Arms in Viet, Xia, Dali, Nanzhao, Korea, and Balhae where possible.


-   Dai Viet title Coat of Arms will now change when part of a Viet heritage character's Realm.


-   Added Great Liao seal title Coat of Arms.


-   Added icon for Imperial Grace accumulated by Celestial Tributaries. It is now also displayed in more interfaces. 


-   Baekje’s Coat of Arms is now a deer rather than a horse.


-   Balhae Coat of Arms is now a bird rather than a rat.


-   Independent Japanese kings and the heir to the Chrysanthemum Throne will now use the Raikan crown.


-   Pause menu background illustration is now skinned to be using different illustrations depending on culture/government type.


-   Updated the Suzu mesh to be higher quality.


-   Added brow furrows, eye wrinkles, forehead wrinkles, body hair, head hair type, and baldness to the ruler designer.


-   Changed weapon triggers for the five kamae animations to have western longswords be standard instead of katana.


-   Added a new Japanese character bow prop. 


-   Added Japanese bow court artifact.


-   Korean officials will no longer wear Chinese hats.


-   The issue where lines indicating an occupied province flicker at higher zoom levels has been fixed.


-   Made background for house relation history vary depending on where the relevant ruler is residing.


-   Added more details into the snow terrain rendering.


-   Updated character window backgrounds with new All Under Heaven illustrations. 


-   Updated the list of possible activity window backgrounds to be more in line with activity event backgrounds.


-   Viet now correctly uses the East Asian court scene, matching their general architecture.


-   Shifted Great Wall Great Buildings to follow the visual path of the Great Wall.


-   Fixed orientation of Heian-kyo 3D model.


-   Added new hegemon level portrait frame.


-   Improved imperial dragon coat of arms so it's split into different elements.


-   Added special shapes for stretched ear lobes typical of Khmer and other SEA cultures.


-   Added more Chinese looking fabric background to Celestial administration contract screen.


-   Updated the Disciple portrait icon.


-   Various heightmap fixes to fix dry straits & other unintentionally poldered areas.


-   Hand painting and heightmap changes to make the visual appearance of the terrain more consistent with its terrain type.


-   Hand painting of materials to generally improve visuals.


-   Switched portrait tone-mapping back to the one used before All Under Heaven. 


-   Tweaked portrait skin textures, render settings and lighting.


-   Updated eye textures to improve some shading issues.


-   Added a missing Reformed Kaharingan icon.


## Game Balance

-   Blocked Tiefutu Cavalry MAA behind Arched Saddle innovation to approximate them not appearing until later in our period.


-   Slightly rebalanced new MAA types introduced in All under Heaven.


-   Updated Coronation costs so that Administrative rulers pay Treasury instead of Gold (and must pay somewhat more).


-   Made Nomadic rulers more likely to accept to become a Meritocratic Khanate’s Tributary.


-   Added Piety gain from hosting a Festival if you have the Ritual Celebrations or Hedonism tenets.


-   Added handgunner counter bonuses to cultural variants of cavalry MAA units. 


-   Clarified the “Influence Career” bonus for the Grand Chancellor and the Minister of Personnel. They used to get a discount to the Influence cost as well as an increase to the provided candidate score. They now only get the former, though the discount has been increased to 50% and 25%, respectively. 


-   Lowered the impact of the “Treasury Debt” catalyst for the Dynastic Cycle.


-   Lowered the Candidate Score bonus from the Influential Contacts (i.e., Ducal Conquest) perk for Merit based realms to 20, down from 30.


-   Made Heian Palace add 2 fort levels and some defender advantage.


-   Made Wanua vassals more likely to want to Assimilate to Mandala.


-   Made blocs less likely to accept petitions from landless rulers with no military power.


-   Made the Japanese domicile Bowyer internal building update give out Damage Mult instead of Screen.


-   Reduced the “Integrate Title” bonus for the Advancement Era down from 10 to 1 (it was turbo integrating Empires in 8 years, now more like 23).


-   The Loyalty and Respect perk now provides a Candidate score for characters with a military career in Merit based realms.


-   Added the Kikuchi bloc in 1178 to make southern Japan less easy pickings for other blocs.


-   Monotheists are now way less likely to accept Embrace from a non-radiant Mandala ruler.


-   Celestial Hegemonies no longer get a tier penalty when trying to vassalize independent Celestial Kingdoms or Empires, aiding in the reunification of China after a Division phase.


-   Relaxed the cultural requirements for Viet and Majapahit formable decisions to allow for rulers of hybrid/diverged cultures to take them.


-   Rulers of admin type realms can now appoint people as governors of the kingdom/empire their capital duchy is in, keeping the duchy and handing off all other titles.


-   Ritsuryō AI willingness to establish Sōryō fiefs now increases over time - being less likely before 1000, and more past 1100.


-   Made Nomads less likely to migrate into Meritocratic Khanates or militarily stronger realms.


-   Improved the overall AI acceptance when attempting to Negotiate Release. Characters will generally be very reluctant to accept anything that includes blinding, disfigurement, or castration. Only in rare circumstances will prisoners accept it.


-   Increased the development_growth_factor for the second tier of Silk Road market buildings from 0.15 to 0.2 to make them more of an improvement over the first tier.


-   Changed the requirements of the “Devise Pleasure Dome” Decision so Meritocratic Khanates and other government types can build it too. 


-   Noble family custom characters start off with a bit more gold to get them going.


-   Replaced some skill points per merit level for Lifestyle Perks for governments that use merit, and replaced them with merit gain modifiers (to avoid governor efficiency stacking too high).


-   The default treasury budget suggestions now leave less Treasury personally for the Huangdi (20% -> 10%) as he generally had too much treasury floating around, now more will be reinvested into the realm.


-   Even Pro-Hegemon Vassals will now suggest salary-focused budget proposals if they're greedy enough. Non-greedy ones will suggest military budgets.


-   The Huangdi of China now keeps more vassal income as personal gold, in line with Meritocratic government (Treasury conversion 99% -> 95%)


-   Reduced Art of War martial per merit level to 0.35, down from 0.5. 


-   The Holy Site Mt. Qingcheng now gives 1 life expectancy and diplomatic lifestyle XP instead of flat diplomacy skill points.


-   The Holy Site Qufu now gives +5% merit instead of learning per merit level, as this boosted Governor Efficiency more than intended across most of China.


## Interface

-   Added House Relation level icon on Characters’ house Coat-of-Arms.


-   Fixed vassal lines clipping through mountains by increasing the max curve height.


-   Layout of the secondary portrait information in the character window has been revamped. Opinion, title text, and buttons to see previous spouses and/or regent have been stacked vertically. Now it also doesn't shift position depending on length of text making it easier to click on buttons when going back and forth between portraits.


-   Added a graphical element to show whether the character is not at home, both on the HUD and in the Character screen. 


-   Adjusted positioning of front-end menus top window decorations so that it's placed correctly on the border.


-   Added the Investment Cap to the “Your Family” tab of the Government overview window, allowing you to once again see what your cap is and the breakdown for it. It will be shown for all administrative based governments that do not use Merit.


-   Merit candidate tooltip now states more clearly when you do not have high enough Merit Rank to get a County title, instead of saying you were “0th” in line.


-   The tooltip for the Hegemon/Other Rulers in the Dynastic Cycle now shows held % of counties in the HUD.


-   Updated the event window and the bounding box of characters to prevent them from slightly overlapping the right-hand side of the option buttons, which prevented you from tooltiping trait icons if you gain a trait.


-   Mandala is now the default AUH bookmark for 867 and Japan the default AUH bookmark for 1178. 


-   When traveling to an activity, the name of the activity will now be listed in the “View Travel” interface.


-   Hid “Your Family” interface tab from characters who do not utilize it.


-   Fixed the bottom part of the “Declare War” window. It will now not go behind the HUD bar.


-   Adjusted bookmark portraits so that they don’t cut off characters with high or wide headwear.


-   Expanded the tooltips in the Realms panel subtabs for clarity. 


-   Success chance in the bottom of the Inspection activity window has been rearranged to not block the bottom of event descriptions and options.


-   Added max widths to texts in Barony Title interface to keep it from overlapping and overflowing the window bounds.


-   Adjusted adventurer bookmarks to use the right hair and facial hairstyles.


-   Hid the % land ownership in Your Family Tab unless you are Powerful/Dominant and it matters.


-   Added separate back and close buttons to the create accolades view.


-   Fixed issue where the player’s examination status was reflected in every tooltip for exam status in the Admin Panel


-   The Exam Status now includes “failed” and “not taken” instead of simply “incomplete”


-   Moved the Fort Level in the Siege View into its own box to make more sense and not interfere with the soldier balance tooltip.


-   Camp Purpose Alert now opens the Laws tab.


-   The sort dropdown for Prisoners list now includes Skills (including Prowess)


-   Added “inheritable traits” filter option to Prisoners list.


-   Court Position tooltip has been shortened by collapsing the Requirements for the Liege and employee.


-   Added a message informing the player that a tributary contract has been invalidated if they are one of the participants in it.


-   Added better explanation of what happened in the event for entering Division Era


-   Added breakdowns to Movement Power and Individual Movement Power in HUD and the Dynastic Cycle window. 


-   Added descriptions for the Movement Power value breakdown tooltip. 


-   Situation Panel visibility toggle buttons now have a tooltip explaining what they do, and their toggle state behaves properly. 


-   Fixed issue with a progress bar appearing for rulers of a culture that can't advance to the next culture era to begin with.


-   Fixed hybridized culture interface cutting off the head of characters on horses. 


-   Bloc allies are shown in the ‘Declare War’ UI for offensive wars when appropriate.


-   Added highlights to subjects' incomplete examinations if character is capped on merit.


-   Pause menu background illustration is now skinned to be using different illustrations depending on culture/government type.


-   Travel and Activity planner is now using the skinned background textures.


-   Adjusted background in vassal obligation contracts so that it doesn’t stretch.


-   “Success chance” in the bottom of the Inspection activity window has been rearranged to not block the bottom of event descriptions and options.


-   Added max widths to texts in the Barony Title interface to keep it from overlapping and overflowing the window bounds.


## Localization

-   Added names in the Barbershop for the eye fold types.


-   Added explanatory line to Sōryō tutorial about Regional Dominion decision.


-   Fixed empty text caused by a typo in mahanadi_river_region.


-   Fixed a typo in the Imperial Censor's concept tooltip.


-   Fixed several dynasty names appearing incorrectly with their localization tags rather than the actual localization text.


-   Removed Taohua from the adventurer Taohua Ly Do Doc’s name and made Ly his dynasty name instead.


-   Fixed misleading text in House Bloc concept implying House control.


-   Improved phrasing in Reactive Advice for Sōryō Bloc Leaders. 


-   Made “Send for Acceptance” phrasing consistent with prestige usage.


-   Standardized button naming in the Hybridize Culture window (Frame Style selection).


-   Fixed dozens of minor Coronation localization typos / bugs.


-   Truncated Nomadic Government reference in character filter to simply say Nomadic, consistent in style and form with the entries both above and below it.


-   Added loc for event activity_system.0310 for if someone declares war on you on the way to an activity.


-   Added Japanese and Korean flavorization for the Hegemon rank.


-   Fixed some historical Koreanic names which were not consistently transliterated.


## User Modding

-   Added the ‘has_realm_law_in_group’ character trigger.


-   Reworked how border wars policy is scripted. We removed the effect, and use a bool character modifier instead.


-   'monthly_character_income', 'yearly_character_income', 'monthly_character_treasury_variable_income', and 'year_character_treasury_variable_income' triggers will always use cached values for both AI and player. They shall no longer be insanely expensive.


-   Add support for per-Contribution overrides to the Contributor restriction list in Great Projects.


-   Governments can now have a field “blocked_subject_courts” which makes a lieges government block vassals with any listed government from having their own royal court.


-   The instabuild console command will now properly complete all Great Projects owned by the player.


-   Fixed crash in the localization system if game concepts were defined in a specific order, due to missing cache invalidation (which could happen more easily in big mods).


-   Added adjacency testing visualization tool via ‘Draw.DebugAdjacencies’ console command.


-   Added ‘gain treasury’ to the gold console button (use shift+button).


-   Added ‘disable_regnal_numbers = yes’ option to government type definitions to disallow regnal number on rulers using those government types.


-   Expanded ‘set_activity_intent’ effect to allow a target character.


-   Added ‘skip_if_overridden’ option to portrait modifier to skip the modifier group if the group will be overridden (see makeup configuration).


-   Added ‘owner’ to the ‘allowed_contributor_filter’ of Great Project contributors, to be able to allow/disallow owners specifically.


## Databases

-   Assigned Wang Anshi his correct historical starting level of Merit.


-   Relocated White Deer Grotto Academy to a more historical location in Yunyang.


-   The Korean peninsula now largely follows Avatamsaka Buddhism rather than Vinaya.


-   Made various genealogical and name corrections to the Sima family in the history of h_china.


-   Made Kazusa Tsunezumi’s son’s birth dates earlier.


-   Viet and Xia now use Chinese Court Language by default.


-   Corrected Orti of Navarra from Disfigured to One-eyed and gave him the appropriate nickname.


-   Corrected the house of Armagnac to be a house of the Vasconia dynasty.


-   Fixed historical character Jin-ul's Faith being Vinaya instead of Dhyana.


-   Fixed incorrect name of Ōshū Ishikawa noble family title.


-   Made Ulleong a Meritocratic vassal of Goryeo in 1178 with a noble family title.


-   Removed duplicate Miyoshi Kiyotsura, and fixed his name.


-   Removed duplicated King Mi-chu of Silla.


-   Added missing Song and Pyeongsan Bak noble family titles in Goryeo.


-   Fixed Fujiwara Michitsuna-ryu house not having a noble family title.


---

We hope this update improves your experience in All Under Heaven and the 1.18 "Crane" Update.


If you encounter any issues after today's update, then please let us know via [the bug report board on our official forums!](https://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/forums/crusader-kings-iii-bug-report.1143/)
