# 1.18.2

**Release Date:** 2025-12-11
**Official Announcement:** https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/1158310/view/594042189388972086

---

Hello everyone! We're releasing Update 1.18.2 today to address some bugs and other assorted issues reported to us by the community. Notably, this includes new content for Minister gameplay in China, new character interactions, and new music tracks. Please check the changelog below for more information! This update should be fully compatible with existing 1.18.1 saves.

* * *

# Update 1.18.2 Changelog

## New Free Content

\[list\]<\*>

Three hit musical tracks from CK2 Jade Dragon have been brought over by popular demand and are available for everyone who owns CK3!

## New Features

\[list\]\[\*\]

Extinguish Noble Family: Added a new character interaction available to empire-tier and above independent Celestial rulers, Extinguish Noble Family, which will allow the player to target an imprisoned Noble Family head, execute them, destroy their Noble Family, and execute much of their close family and banish the rest in accordance with imperial Chinese legal principles of collective responsibility for crimes; independent Empire or higher Celestial rulers will also gain valid execution reasons on any Celestial rulers who declare war on them.

\[\*\]

Withdraw Funds from Treasury: Independent rulers with an Administrative government type (and their Ministers) can now withdraw gold from their treasury occasionally via the “Withdraw Funds from Treasury” decision. This has a cooldown and is scaled to the economy of the held Title. But this is frowned upon and will cost you - either in legitimacy or influence.

\[\*\]

Hegemonic Tributaries Generalization: Hegemonic Tributaries are now generalized so that they are supported for all hegemonies - Roman Tributaries rejoice! (and pay gold plz)

\[\*\]

Improved Powerful Family Attributes: Greatly updated and improved the Powerful Family Attributes for the Administrative government type. (as used by Byzantium for example) The attributes are now leveled similarly to East-Asian House Aspirations, allowing you to spend Influence to improve and level them up over time. All attributes have been rebalanced, having modifiers added, replaced, or removed. The goal here was to make them more interesting and allow you to tweak your playstyle in various ways, rather than simply providing powerful modifiers. They no longer provide any skill points for example.

\[\*\]

Tai Migrations: Added a story cycle to make Tai culture migrate south into peninsular South-East Asia. If you are playing in the region this will manifest as offers to settle Tai population or receive characters in your realm. Over time this means Tai culture will come to exist in some of the areas we think of as modern Thailand, displacing Mon and other cultures present.

\[\*\]

Improved Celestial Ministers: We added some additional mechanics and unlocks to Ministers in China, to expand their toolset to match their historical power

\[list\]\[\*\]

Added special options for Ministers when using the Influence Career interaction, allowing them to bestow Merit or grant Examination exemptions.

\[\*\]

Added the “Compel Religious Uniformity” Great Project, which can be started by the Minister of Rites, Grand Chancellor, or the Huángdì to convert county faith.

\[\*\]

Added the “Conduct Census” Great Project for the Minister of Revenue to boost development, taxes and popular opinion, with optional contributions for natural disaster insurance, newborn benefits, debt relief and finding exam cheaters.

\[\*\]

Added the “Military Operation Exercise” Great Project for the Minister of War to train troops in Military Provinces, to boost stationed MaA, with optional contributions for natural disaster drills, martial lifestyle experience, and artifact maintenance.

\[\*\]

Allowed the Minister of Rites to host Local Examinations.

\[\*\]

Allowed the Minister of Works to initiate the “Strengthen Capital” and “Construct Great Barracks” Great Projects as well.

\[\*\]

The Minister of Works now has the ability to construct buildings anywhere in the Empire’s realm, allowing them to assist border lands or favored Governors

\[\*\]

Allowed the Son of Heaven and the Minister of Works to construct buildings in Tributaries as well in the Advancement Era

\[\*\]

The Minister of Personnel now has automatic acceptance for the use of “Demand Courtier” and “Offer Courtier” interactions within the same realm.

\[\*\]

Unlocked the “Recruit Terrain Specialist” decision for the Grand Marshal and Minister of War; also expressed in Ministerial tooltips that they have access to the Summon Courtiers for the Celestial Bureau Decision.

\[\*\]

Added a decent monthly influence gain for Ministers.

\[\*\]

Added substantial Influence gain for Ministers when Great Projects they initiate are completed.

\[\*\]

Added influence rewards for Ministers for doing their expected tasks, i.e. to the Minister of Justice for imprisoning criminals, to the Grand Censor for exposing secrets, to the Minister of Works for constructing buildings, etc.

\[\*\]

Added an extra Scheme slot for all Scheme types to all Ministers and the Emperor of China.

\[\*\]

Added “Send Treasury” interaction to pay off treasury debt of other Characters as Minister of Revenue/Emperor.

\[\*\]

Added “Send Aidee” contribution to all natural disaster relief Great Projects available only to Ministers.

\[\*\]

Added the “Request Bestowal of Honors” Decision for Ministers to spend a large amount of influence to gain Personal honors and recognition for their House in the form of a permanent House Modifier.

\[\*\]

Gave the Minister of Revenue a discount when hosting Activities and the Grand Marshal a discount on Men-at-Arms Recruitment Cost.

\[\*\]

Increased the Army Maintenance discount given to the Grand Marshal.

\[\*\]

Added Dynastic Cycle catalysts to blackmailing and exposing secrets for the Minister of Justice and Grand Censor, so they have the power to swing the Cycle with their powers.

\[\*\]

Added a new possible outcome to the Find Secrets scheme to imprison known criminals.

\[\*\]

Added current situation item for characters you have an imprisonment reason as the Minister of Justice and treasury cost to imprison them.

\[\*\]

We highlight the Imprison and Pardon interaction if you are the Minister of Justice. Added current situation item for pardoning anyone in the realm as the Minister of Justice.

<\*>

Allowed the Minister of Justice to use the Find Secrets interaction and scheme throughout the realm

<\*>

Gave the Minister of Rites access to a unique “Compel Conversion” interaction to convert characters in the realm who belong to faiths that deem the Minister's (or the Huangdi's) faith as Hostile or Evil.

<\*>

Improved the Minister of Rites' success chance for the “Promote Movement Power” scheme, and made them a more challenging target for “Slander Movement Power” schemes.

## Tech Improvements

\[list\]\[\*\]

We now support Apple Silicon CPUs natively (ARM architecture) and that should give a nice performance boost for people using M1/M2/M3/M4 chips.

\[\*\]

Graphical performance of Vulkan under Linux and Mac is brought back to roughly before-update levels.

<\*>

Map graphics shader performance has been fine tuned and improved, which will help out mid-range graphics cards the most.

## Bugfixes

Special thanks to Kazarion, creator of the Unofficial Patch mod, who helped us by suggesting some of these fixes.

\[list\]<\*>

More bugfixes than we can list in a Steam announcement. [Check our forums for more information!](https://"https://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/threads/update-1-18-2.1887748/)

## Game Content

\[list\]\[\*\]

Added event for Huang Chao when starting from the 867 start date, allowing him to rebel against the Tang dynasty.

\[\*\]

Changed the new Il-eom adventurer's dynasty name from Ho-seung to Chong.

\[\*\]

Added the Ho-seung nickname to Il-eom.

\[\*\]

Added proxy for female Creation Mandalas in the Midwives' Dream Mandala Ritual.

\[\*\]

Added Baofeing Silver mine special building.

\[\*\]

Added Chihu Iron mines special building.

\[\*\]

Added Guiyang Silver Mines special building.

\[\*\]

Added Hanxing Iron Mine special building.

\[\*\]

Added Jiadong Gold mines special building.

\[\*\]

Added Kaibo Silver Mines special building.

\[\*\]

Added Liangzhe Silver Mines special building.

\[\*\]

Added Mozu Tombs special building to Japan.

\[\*\]

Added Zijinshan Gold mine special building.

\[\*\]

Added Ziliujing & Gongjing Salt Wells special building.

\[\*\]

Added the Green Stone Amitabha Buddha court artifact in the Viet court in 1066 and 1178.

\[\*\]

Added 13 new Historical Battle Points of Interest in East Asia, with associated Commander traits.

\[\*\]

Added Hegemon tier handling to the Legitimizing Legend de-jure drift decision rewards.

\[\*\]

Added a bunch of warnings about Monotheism making you stop being a Mandala.

\[\*\]

Added clarifying tooltip to Trickery marriage trigger.

\[\*\]

Added events for the emergence of Goryeo culture after the Husamguk is united.

\[\*\]

Added memory upon completing a Mandala Aspect.

\[\*\]

Added message filter option for the New Noble family message.

\[\*\]

Added new event for upgrading your Mandala Aspect.

\[\*\]

Added notification for Hegemony that someone swore Tributary status to you via Tribute Mission.

\[\*\]

Added two decisions to found the kingdom and empire titles of Brunei as a Muslim character in the region.

\[\*\]

Adventurers may now seize land from Herders and become Nomadic.

\[\*\]

Allow founders of Great Projects to ask other Characters to contribute.

\[\*\]

Mandala God kings using the Creation Aspect can now construct buildings in Tributaries if they themselves are not a tributary.

\[\*\]

Blocked option to join on the side of the invaders in Request Incursion interaction and added a Requested Incursion secret if you are in the Dynastic Cycle.

\[\*\]

Created a titular title for the Jin dynasty in 1178, separate from Andong.

\[\*\]

Added Steam Rich Presence for All Under Heaven features.

\[\*\]

Dynastic Pragmatism now allows adoption of any unrelated orphaned children, without opinion penality.

\[\*\]

“Found the Siam Kingdom” decision now requires the duchy of Lop Buri instead of Muang Sua, and its gold cost is 350 instead of 250.

\[\*\]

If held, the kingdom of Balhae will now become a dejure part of the new empire upon taking the Unite the Husamguk decision.

\[\*\]

Replaced Bojo Jinul the adventurer with Il-eom.

\[\*\]

Updated Adopt Feudal Ways decision to be usable by all new administrative governments, unless you are the Son of Heaven.

\[\*\]

Wanua players should now be able to Adopt Feudal Ways without being Monotheist.

\[\*\]

Added legitimacy and opinion penalties for picking a different Stable Era than expected as the Son of Heaven.

<\*>

Added a new event to let you know when your Elder dies, if you're available - and a notification if you are not.

## Art

\[list\]\[\*\]

Added cattails to wetlands in Asia.

\[\*\]

Modified the terrain to make the Cliffs of Dover bright again.

\[\*\]

Modified tiling snow textures in the northernmost part of the map (Siberia) to be less repeating.

\[\*\]

Updated locators covering nearly all territories in Japan, improving placement of holdings, armies and on-map buildings.

\[\*\]

Generated new army locators in Amur, Andong, China, Goryeo, Philippines, Papua, Indonesia, Southeast Asia, Tibet and Taiwan.

\[\*\]

Fixed army locators for ships in Mamiya Strait to stop ships from routing through land.

\[\*\]

Moved Mahamuni holding inside the borders of the County.

\[\*\]

Added missing lakes in Duchy of Jianchuan.

\[\*\]

Fixed building locators for Muang Fuang, Xingshan & Nanbin.

\[\*\]

Modified terrain to make Lake Khanka look more realistic.

\[\*\]

Modified terrain in Tataria to match terrain type.

\[\*\]

Modified terrain in northern India to match terrain type.

\[\*\]

Modified terrain in Wudang mountain to match terrain type.

\[\*\]

Modified terrain in District of Fuan to match terrain type.

\[\*\]

Modified terrain in the Kingdom of Pagan region to match terrain type.

\[\*\]

Modified terrain on the south-eastern edge of Africa to match terrain type.

\[\*\]

Modified terrain around Kairouan Basins to stop it from flying.

\[\*\]

Modified terrain to fix Visegrad Citadel clipping with the map.

\[\*\]

Fixed visual bug affecting Lake Maharloo.

\[\*\]

Improved the conditions for skipping cloud shadows in shaders for better graphics performance.

\[\*\]

Adjusted the water shader so that the fade animation is only calculated when transitioning to the flat map.

\[\*\]

Changed icons of some special buildings in Japan for variety and accuracy.

\[\*\]

Fixed all characters in China, Korea, Japan, etc. using a throne room background in character selection.

\[\*\]

Fixed an issue where some of the newer hairstyles would show up on the wrong ethnicities in ruler designer.

\[\*\]

Fixed the blend shape for elongated earlobes so it should now work correctly.

\[\*\]

Fixed the weird issue with eyes in the "Zealous" animation looking washed out.

\[\*\]

Added 2 versions of female Southeast Asian commoner clothes.

\[\*\]

Added one female Southeast Asian Royalty outfit.

\[\*\]

Added Korean commoner clothes for both female and male.

\[\*\]

Added Korean nobility clothes for both female and male.

\[\*\]

Added Korean male nobility headgear.

\[\*\]

Added Korean male commoner headgear.

\[\*\]

Improved appearance of the Ritsuryō Province Administration window.

\[\*\]

Added more variations to the graphical decoration of the side of Tradition icons, specifically for Asia and Steppe.

\[\*\]

By default Byzantine heritage will now use the Byzantine map table when set to Dynamic, while only Asian cultures will use the East Asian table.

\[\*\]

Raised the Indian throne locators so that people no longer sit inside the pillows.

\[\*\]

Fixed Chinese unit tier 3 using the wrong weapon, and their horse not disappearing when dismounting.

\[\*\]

Fixed Bushi Daimon clipping issues for beefy characters.

\[\*\]

Increased ballista size.

\[\*\]

Adjusted the visuals of the low-spec terrain to more closely match the original colors.

\[\*\]

Fixed the issue where some objects would glow if there were no characters in the court.

<\*>

Fixed the issue where the border lines would be rendered outside of the paper map edges

## Game Balance

\[list\]\[\*\]

Natural Disasters now have a higher catalyst value, because of us fixing the bug where the project wouldn't go away if relief was funded (it should average out).

\[\*\]

'Lost War' is now a much harsher catalyst.

\[\*\]

Made Tribal faith Thep Arak unreformed and added a warning for Mandala to change to the Pilgrimage: Forbidden doctrine, since it makes it impossible to progress as a Mandala.

\[\*\]

Mandalas are now subject to the Trials if they inherit a title higher than their primary title.

\[\*\]

Now the Mandala Capital Great Project invalidates if the holder of the Great Project location is no longer a Mandala government.

\[\*\]

Tiefutu Cavalry split into Black Armor Cavalry and Tiefutu. Black Armor Cavalry is now stack size 100 but has significantly lower stats, while Tiefutu retains the old stats of 1.18.1

\[\*\]

Tiefutu is now unlocked by a regional innovation that the Jurchen culture has.

\[\*\]

Higher tier governorships in the House now count more towards the Kamapku's succession score.

\[\*\]

Restored Ten'no may now create kingdom and duchy titles in Japan.

\[\*\]

The AI will no longer spawn an endless amount of legends in the mid-late game, they'll try to stay around 10 legends worldwide.

\[\*\]

A small amount of Poet trait XP will still be gained if the recipient mocks you after using the Send Poem interaction.

\[\*\]

Moved Control Great Project from Minister of Rites to Minister of Justice.

\[\*\]

Gold gained after an Adventurer Invasion now scales with the size of their Camp.

\[\*\]

Halved the Ceremonial Monarch opinion bonus to Ruling Regent succession score.

\[\*\]

Japanese Manor buildings will now unlock 2 internal slots at level 3, and 3 internal slots at level 5.

\[\*\]

Populist and Escalated Peasant factions will carve out duchy sized realms if they win the war or demands are accepted.

\[\*\]

Reduced Toughness of Warriors Monks, but increased Damage slightly.

\[\*\]

Reduced the bonuses of Hakata Port and Dazaifu Office special buildings as they are often both held simultaneously.

\[\*\]

Reworked Meritocratic Ceremonial Monarchs: title now created when any Meritocratic Empire loses a Liberty faction demand/war.

\[\*\]

Changed Burenjia to have lower damage but higher toughness.

\[\*\]

Removed restrictions on East Asian Estate buildings relating to the Dynastic Cycle movements.

\[\*\]

Rowdy trait no longer less common for cultures with the Cultivation tradition to help rectify a lack of military career focused characters in the Hegemony of China.

\[\*\]

The Cultivation tradition no longer makes Pensive more common to help rectify a lack of military career focused characters in the Hegemony of China.

\[\*\]

Zhanmadao Infantry now has a regiment size of 50 and significantly higher stats to match.

\[\*\]

Nomadic AI's will now vastly prefer to conquer lands from larger settled realms rather than make them tributaries.

\[\*\]

The AI will now consider more factors when inviting rulers to their Movement in China, firstly, only powerful AI's (movement leaders, powerful family heads, the Emperor, etc) will use the interaction to prevent the largest movement from 'winning', they will now try to poach members from movements stronger than them and undecided rulers.

\[\*\]

Made the AI a bit more likely to recruit Zhanmadao infantry while also decreasing its costs slightly.

\[\*\]

Restored Ten'no may now create duchy and kingdom titles in Japan.

\[\*\]

Reduced the amount of domicile buildings Nomads start with, and normalized the costs for their domicile buildings a bit.

\[\*\]

The Viet court will now start with the Green Stone Amitabha Buddha court artifact statue in 1066 and 1178.

\[\*\]

Independent Administrative rulers will now always get a big bonus to their House Power, instead of this just applying when they were empire tier or above.

\[\*\]

Allowed Regents and Diarchs to attend and participate in local and imperial examinations, so they aren’t excluded from progressing their careers when their liege is traveling a lot

<\*>

The AI is better at deciding when to hire personal Men-at-Arms vs title Men-at-Arms, and when to disband different types of Men-at-Arms

## Interface

\[list\]\[\*\]

Children's Entries in Your Family panel now show the same info as in tooltip.

\[\*\]

Made numbers in the Provinces List in the Admin Panel have fixed width for easier scanning across columns.

\[\*\]

Made terminology of abandoning a Great Project consistent and removed a pointless tooltip.

\[\*\]

Split out Kingdom concept to King and Kingdom, and same for all other Ranks and Tiers.

\[\*\]

Tributary map icons are now explained in the realm tooltip.

\[\*\]

Added pulsating glow around Exam types to indicate that you should try and get them

\[\*\]

Added a new mode to the “Supplement Treasury” button to be able to transfer 500 gold to treasury in one go (instead of clicking +50 ten times).

\[\*\]

Added area highlights on the map for great projects based on the targeted title tier.

\[\*\]

Added information about which Dynastic Cycle rulers will be vassalized after claiming the Mandate of Heaven.

\[\*\]

Cleaned up Situation and Struggle Tooltip and ensured it properly handles you not being a participant.

\[\*\]

Hid incorrect gold payments for treasury-using vassals.

\[\*\]

House Relation History, aligned text on entries better and the change is now expressed as a percentage.

\[\*\]

Merit Rank being capped by missing exams is now shown on all Merit Icons, as a red progressbar.

\[\*\]

Messages relating to barter now use the Barter icon instead of a piece of paper.

\[\*\]

Replaced County Opinion with the Commitment value for all County faction members in the Faction window.

\[\*\]

Untaken Exam icons are now darkened rather than grayed out.

\[\*\]

Reworked war declaration screen to stop overflows and nested scrollbars.

\[\*\]

Added a different label to the Dynastic Cycle window when previewing effects of a selected potential Era, so it's clear you are doing exactly that.

\[\*\]

Added a warning to the Shape Dynastic Cycle decision explaining why points are added to Tension when you choose the Push toward Stable Era option when in a different Stable Era.

\[\*\]

In Simplified Chinese and Japanese we are now more consistently not putting a space after the bullet of a bullet-list.

\[\*\]

Added a sorting option for Merit in most character lists.

\[\*\]

Merit is the default sorting option when using Grant Title, when playing as a character with a Merit-using government.

\[\*\]

We now show a more correct explanation why a Scheme is paused in the Scheme interface.

\[\*\]

Removed the Elder and Disciples tab from your Domicile if you are an independent ruler.

\[\*\]

Added Enter as a hotkey to the Confirm War Declaration button.

<\*>

Changed the “Old Save” popup window warnings to check for only differing major release versions, instead of minor version differences. (since they should be loadable).

## Localization

\[list\]\[\*\]

Changed 'pour over' typos to 'pore over'.

\[\*\]

Made the house Relation Feed Message Title more informative, and house relations will no longer show prefixes such as 'von' or 'of'.

\[\*\]

Added "Hoa Thuong" as a Viet flavour term for a Buddhist Court Chaplain.

\[\*\]

Added additional warning on the Convert to Faith-button for Mandalas turning Monotheist.

\[\*\]

Clarified Adopt Mandala event for those who already have a Temple Citadel.

\[\*\]

Clarified Trickery marriage trigger tooltip to denote Rulers have to be outside of your realm.

\[\*\]

Clarified and fixed grammar in some reasons for acceptance of the Find Elder interaction.

\[\*\]

Cleaned up and fixed typos in Mandala government description.

\[\*\]

Dharmic Syncretism description now links to the Dharmic Religion Family.

\[\*\]

Explained how house relations change in the House relation game concept.

\[\*\]

Fix typos in Dynastic Cycle RA.

\[\*\]

Fixed broken strings relating to the roman empire in game rules and CB.

\[\*\]

Fixed some inconsistently named noble family titles in Korea.

\[\*\]

Fixed spacing of Héshàng (Chinese Buddhist court chaplain) for consistency with other pinyin.

\[\*\]

Localized missing strings for vassal labels.

\[\*\]

Made unselectable contributor tooltip more broadly applicable.

\[\*\]

Minor typo in interaction modifier tooltip.

\[\*\]

Now Wards & Wardens memories reference the correct piety label.

\[\*\]

Reworded the description for Prominence, to improve readability.

\[\*\]

The Bookmark "The Great Adventurers" is now known as "Humble Origins".

\[\*\]

Updated the Fascination game concept to accurately mention the use of skills, and not specifically learning. As learning is no longer the only skill used.

\[\*\]

Updated the Ministry game concept to include a mention of Prominence, and how certain minister positions can be promoted into higher ranked positions.

\[\*\]

When you gain a title the tooltip we will now always use the base name of that tile (so it won't say "you gained the Fatimids title" if you took the kingdom of Egypt for instance.

\[\*\]

New localization for failing the debate as a challenged movement leader.

\[\*\]

Corrected the spelling of several baronies in French, German, Polish, and Spanish.

\[\*\]

Kingdom and Empire tier Protectorate governors will now be flavorized as Protector-General and Grand Protector-General.

<\*>

Fixed various text in the UI being cut off or pushing other elements off screen in Russian/Polish (though the changes would apply to any language with longer text than English).

## Modding

\[list\]\[\*\]

Added 'IsCtrlDown', 'IsShiftDown', 'IsAltDown' interface data binding functions.

\[\*\]

Added an error on bad usage of the add\_from\_contribution\_ \* effects and clarified its documentation. 

\[\*\]

Added support for getting the Founder of a GreatProject in gui script.

\[\*\]

Log errors for missing culture tradition category on database load.

\[\*\]

New script list for neighbours of realm with tributaries that can transverse over water.

\[\*\]

Increased an internal limitation on certain scriptable things like script values so that very large mods can continue to operate as intended. A classic coding issue where we were storing a global flag with a maximum ID of 65535. 2016: Because no one would use that many, right … right? 2025: CK3 usage is now at ~40k, and mods were adding more on top of that.

\[\*\]

Updated Petition title revocation requirements to use title\_revocation\_allowed flag.

\[\*\]

Added portrait asset scaling inheritance via ‘inherit\_scale’ which will allow babies to ride baby horses instead of hanging on for dear life underneath adult horses. (or scale peg-legs to fit characters of all sizes).

\[\*\]

Great Projects can now have dynamic names.

\[\*\]

Suppressed ‘new\_holy\_order scope not set after effect’ error when using the ‘create\_holy\_order’ decision controller.

\[\*\]

Council position ‘on\_get\_position’ on-action now also receives a \`swapped\_position\` scope if the change was part of a position swap

\[\*\]

Council position ‘on\_fired\_from\_position’ on-action now also receives a \`new\_councillor\` scope if someone else is the replacement

<\*>

Added dynamic loc for Merit Level descriptions - for example \`celestial\_government\_merit\_level\_2\_description\` will be added to the Merit level description of only level 2 of the Celestial government type

## Databases

\[list\]\[\*\]

Expanded the female Han Chinese cultural namelist.

\[\*\]

Added some additional Japanese historical characters.

\[\*\]

Changed Yamato culture color to pink to differentiate it more from Han.

\[\*\]

Expanded start dates where Goryeo noble families of Haeju Choe, Jiksan Choe, Gangneung Kim, Sangju Kyeon, Dongrae Jeong are playable, and added Seohae Wang.

\[\*\]

Extended Balhae culture and governors to the sea in 867.

\[\*\]

Fixed the father of Ngo An Ngu from Nhat Khanh to Xuong Xi.

\[\*\]

Fixed name of Gochi-in no Tajima 1178 adventurer and made him a monk.

\[\*\]

Heinrich IV will no longer start as already crowned in 1178.

\[\*\]

Kourkouas is now a playable Byzantine noble family in 1066.

\[\*\]

Made Du Gyeong-seung governor of the county of Seogyeong and head of the Dureung Du noble family in Goryeo in 1178.

\[\*\]

Made Gokju Cheok a playable Goryeo noble family in 1066, led by Wi-gong.

\[\*\]

Made Jeongju Ryu a playable Goryeo noble family in 1066, led by Hong.

\[\*\]

Made Nakatomi a playable noble family in Japan in 867.

\[\*\]

Made Paju Yeom a playable Silla/Goryeo noble family in all start dates, and added missing characters.

\[\*\]

Made Samira and Anket in Ciscaucasia Nomadic holdings in all bookmarks.

\[\*\]

Made the Andong Kwon a playable Silla/Goryeo noble family in all start dates, and added missing members.

\[\*\]

Made the Cheongju Kwak a playable Goryeo noble family in 1066 & 1178, and added missing members.

\[\*\]

Made the Milyang Bak noble family in Goryeo playable in 1178, fixed and expanded its family tree, and changed its head in 1066 to Eon-bu.

\[\*\]

Made the Pyeongsan Bak a playable Goryeo noble family in 1066 & 1178, and added missing members.

\[\*\]

Moluccan culture now starts with the storytellers and quarrelsome traditions.

\[\*\]

Moved Balhae remnants to Liaodong in 1066, led by father of Ko Yeong-chang, and moved Dae family to Goryeo.

\[\*\]

Increased development of the county of Gyeongju, Silla's capital, in all bookmarks.

\[\*\]

Added missing members of the Anak Yang noble family in Goryeo.

\[\*\]

Renamed Khitan language to Serbi, and gave it to Tuyuhun instead of Mongolic.

\[\*\]

Renamed the Paju Yeom family to Papyeong Yeom, and the Gaeunhyeon Kyeon family to Sangju Kyeon.

\[\*\]

Renamed the kingdom of Viet to Dai Viet.

\[\*\]

Renamed the Suwon Choe noble family to Suju Choe, and made Chung-gong its holder in 1066.

\[\*\]

Made duchy of Liaodong dejure of the kingdom of Balhae in 867, and Raole in other bookmarks, to prevent a disjointed kingdom of Khitan. 

\[\*\]

The Haripunjaya family tree should now be properly connected. This also means their rulers start with heirs.

\[\*\]

Added more historical traits to scripted historical characters.

\[\*\]

Fixed incorrect house of Minamoto Yorimitsu’s daughter, wife of Minamoto Narimasa.

\[\*\]

Fixed death date of Dae Wan.

\[\*\]

Changed some governments to match their liege governments in 867 and 1178.

\[\*\]

Added the historical figure Yu Cong to the game in 867.

\[\*\]

Changed the de jure capital of the Liangshan Band from c\_zhongzhou to c\_yunzhou.

\[\*\]

Made some minor corrections to dates and title holders in Vietnamese title history.

<\*>

Removed period-inaccurate cultural variant name for k\_dzungaria.

* * *

We hope this update improves your experience in All Under Heaven and the 1.18 "Crane" Update. As always, if you encounter any issues after today's update, then please let us know via the Community Support board here on Steam, or via [the bug report board on our official forums](https://"https://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/forums/crusader-kings-iii-bug-report.1143/)!
